README.md, before:

# Emma2click Docker Magento <br><small>environment and toolset</small>

<p align="center"><img src="assets/images/install.png" width="600" align="center" alt="Emma2click Docker Magento environment and toolset" /></p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/magento/magento2" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/magento-2.X-brightgreen.svg?logo=magento&longCache=true&style=for-the-badge&logoColor=white" alt="Supported Magento Versions" /></a>
  
</p>

Emma2click toolset is a system-wide command-line tool for creating and managing simultaneously running docker Magento projects with insanely easy installation and configuration. It includes plenty of configurable services and useful commands for developing and project orchestration right out of the box. On macOS systems, [mutagen.io](https://mutagen.io) tool will be bundled in the toolset for high-performance files sync between host and docker containers.

## Table of contents

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [What is included](#what-is-included)
    - [Global system-wide services](#global-system-wide-services)
    - [Per-project services](#per-project-services)
- [Usage](#usage)
    - [Interactive project initialization mode](#interactive-project-initialization-mode)
    - [Commandline project initialization mode](#commandline-project-initialization-mode)
- [XDEBUG](XDEBUG.md)
- [License](#license)

## Prerequisites

This setup assumes you are running Docker on a computer with at least 6GB of allocated RAM, a dual-core, and an SSD hard drive. 
 
This configuration has been tested on macOS. Linux based systems still require testing. Any testing are welcomed!

## Installation

To install Emma2click toolset to your system, simply run command below.

```bash
curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/freeyland/e2c/master/get | bash
```

## What is included

### Global system-wide services

After toolset is installed, you will have the next tools available locally:

- Traefik - <a href="https://traefik.e2c.test" target="_blank">https://traefik.e2c.test</a>
- Portainer - <a href="https://portainer.e2c.test" target="_blank">https://portainer.e2c.test</a>
- Mailhog - <a href="https://mailhog.e2c.test" target="_blank">https://mailhog.e2c.test</a>
- Dnsmasq - <a href="https://dnsmasq.e2c.test" target="_blank">https://dnsmasq.e2c.test</a>

Toolset local homepage with links to all tools listed above is available at: <a href="https://e2c.test" target="_blank">https://e2c.test</a>

<p align="center"><img src="assets/images/e2c.png" width="600" align="center" alt="Emma2click Docker Magento environment and toolset" /></p>

- **Traefik:** An open-source reverse proxy and load balancer for HTTP and TCP-based applications that is easy, dynamic, automatic, fast, full-featured, production proven, provides metrics, and integrates with every major cluster technology... 

- **Portainer:** it’s a powerful, open-source management toolset that allows you to easily build, manage and maintain Docker environments.

- **Mailhog:** MailHog is an email testing tool for developers:
  - Configure your application to use MailHog for SMTP delivery
  - View messages in the web UI, or retrieve them with the JSON API
  - Optionally release messages to real SMTP servers for delivery

- **DNSMasq:** is a lightweight, easy to configure, DNS forwarder and DHCP server. It is designed to provide DNS and optionally, DHCP, to a small network. It can serve the names of local machines which are not in the global DNS. The DHCP server integrates with the DNS server and allows machines with DHCP-allocated addresses to appear in the DNS with names configured either in each host or in a central configuration file. Dnsmasq supports static and dynamic DHCP leases and BOOTP/TFTP for network booting of diskless machines.

**All docker images with services listed above must be active.** These services are configured to start automatically and should not be stopped. Without active Traefik and Dnsmasq, e2c backed projects can't work properly. This option can be desable with: 

> e2c global autostart off

### Per-project services

Most of services are available with version on your choice.

All docker Magento projects initialized with:

- Nginx
- PHP-FPM
- MariaDB
- Redis
- Xdebug

And optionally available:

- Varnish
- Elasticsearch
- phpMyadmin
- RabbitMQ

The optionally available containers can be added on the fly with ```e2c add ...```

## Usage

After toolset is installed on your system, you may use it to initialize new or existing magento projects.

To get a list of all commands and usage information, run ```e2c``` or ```e2c --help``` which is equivalent.

### Interactive project initialization mode (existing and new)

To initialize project, open the desired directory with terminal and run

```bash
e2c init
```

This command will launch project initialization in interactive mode. 
***This is for both existing and new projects!***
Simply follow the steps to configure the desired Docker Magento development environment. You will be guided through a wizard.

<p align="center"><img src="assets/images/wizard.png" width="600" align="center" alt="Emma2click wizard" /></p>

### Commandline project initialization mode

If at least one command argument is defined, automated setup will be started. All undefined parameters will be set with default values.

```bash
e2c init [parameters...] [flags...]
```

To get a list of all available parameters and flags for project configuration, run 

```bash
e2c init --help
e2c db --help
```

## PhpMyadmin

You can access phpmyadmin page by surfing to http://pma.[E2C_CFG_DOMAIN_NAME]

## Still performance issues

https://markshust.com/2018/01/30/performance-tuning-docker-mac/

<p align="center"><img src="assets/images/docker-settings.png" width="600" align="center" alt="Docker settings" /></p>

## Remarks

### Uninstall

Please note that when you uninstall, the containers will be removed. So when having issues with e2c it is better to reinstall than to do an uninstall. Reinstall can be triggered by running the curl command again above.

### Change of domain name

When changing the domainname of your project, you will need to recreate your containers ans ALSO remove env.php.

### When doing e2c down

The containers will be deleted and the persistant volumes will be removed. Note they are not deleted from your system! You can delete them via portainer.

### When importing a db

Use the absolute path to your file. There is also a bug on Mac that you cannot hib the back button.

### What folders are synced

ignore:
      paths:
        - .idea
        - .vscode
        - .m2c
        - /bin
        - /generated
        - /pub/media/catalog/product
        - /pub/static
        - /var
        - /vendor
        - node_modules


## XDEBUG
[XDEBUG info](XDEBUG.md)
## License

[MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Make sure that groupmod change does not loop

README.md, after:

# Emma2click Docker Magento <br><small>environment and toolset</small>

<p align="center"><img src="assets/images/install.png" width="600" align="center" alt="Emma2click Docker Magento environment and toolset" /></p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/magento/magento2" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/magento-2.X-brightgreen.svg?logo=magento&longCache=true&style=for-the-badge&logoColor=white" alt="Supported Magento Versions" /></a>
  
</p>

Emma2click toolset is a system-wide command-line tool for creating and managing simultaneously running docker Magento projects with insanely easy installation and configuration. It includes plenty of configurable services and useful commands for developing and project orchestration right out of the box. On macOS systems, [mutagen.io](https://mutagen.io) tool will be bundled in the toolset for high-performance files sync between host and docker containers.

## Table of contents

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [What is included](#what-is-included)
    - [Global system-wide services](#global-system-wide-services)
    - [Per-project services](#per-project-services)
- [Usage](#usage)
    - [Interactive project initialization mode](#interactive-project-initialization-mode)
    - [Commandline project initialization mode](#commandline-project-initialization-mode)
- [XDEBUG](XDEBUG.md)
- [License](#license)

## Prerequisites

This setup assumes you are running Docker on a computer with at least 6GB of allocated RAM, a dual-core, and an SSD hard drive. 
 
This configuration has been tested on macOS. Linux based systems still require testing. Any testing are welcomed!

## Installation

To install Emma2click toolset to your system, simply run command below.

```bash
curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/freeyland/e2c/master/get | bash
```

## What is included

### Global system-wide services

After toolset is installed, you will have the next tools available locally:

- Traefik - <a href="https://traefik.e2c.test" target="_blank">https://traefik.e2c.test</a>
- Portainer - <a href="https://portainer.e2c.test" target="_blank">https://portainer.e2c.test</a>
- Mailhog - <a href="https://mailhog.e2c.test" target="_blank">https://mailhog.e2c.test</a>
- Dnsmasq - <a href="https://dnsmasq.e2c.test" target="_blank">https://dnsmasq.e2c.test</a>

Toolset local homepage with links to all tools listed above is available at: <a href="https://e2c.test" target="_blank">https://e2c.test</a>

<p align="center"><img src="assets/images/e2c.png" width="600" align="center" alt="Emma2click Docker Magento environment and toolset" /></p>

- **Traefik:** An open-source reverse proxy and load balancer for HTTP and TCP-based applications that is easy, dynamic, automatic, fast, full-featured, production proven, provides metrics, and integrates with every major cluster technology... 

- **Portainer:** it’s a powerful, open-source management toolset that allows you to easily build, manage and maintain Docker environments.

- **Mailhog:** MailHog is an email testing tool for developers:
  - Configure your application to use MailHog for SMTP delivery
  - View messages in the web UI, or retrieve them with the JSON API
  - Optionally release messages to real SMTP servers for delivery

- **DNSMasq:** is a lightweight, easy to configure, DNS forwarder and DHCP server. It is designed to provide DNS and optionally, DHCP, to a small network. It can serve the names of local machines which are not in the global DNS. The DHCP server integrates with the DNS server and allows machines with DHCP-allocated addresses to appear in the DNS with names configured either in each host or in a central configuration file. Dnsmasq supports static and dynamic DHCP leases and BOOTP/TFTP for network booting of diskless machines.

**All docker images with services listed above must be active.** These services are configured to start automatically and should not be stopped. Without active Traefik and Dnsmasq, e2c backed projects can't work properly. This option can be desable with: 

> e2c global autostart off

### Per-project services

Most of services are available with version on your choice.

All docker Magento projects initialized with:

- Nginx
- PHP-FPM
- MariaDB
- Redis
- Xdebug

And optionally available:

- Varnish
- Elasticsearch
- phpMyadmin
- RabbitMQ

The optionally available containers can be added on the fly with ```e2c add ...```

## Usage

After toolset is installed on your system, you may use it to initialize new or existing magento projects.

To get a list of all commands and usage information, run ```e2c``` or ```e2c --help``` which is equivalent.

### Interactive project initialization mode (existing and new)

To initialize project, open the desired directory with terminal and run

```bash
e2c init
```

This command will launch project initialization in interactive mode. 
***This is for both existing and new projects!***
Simply follow the steps to configure the desired Docker Magento development environment. You will be guided through a wizard.

<p align="center"><img src="assets/images/wizard.png" width="600" align="center" alt="Emma2click wizard" /></p>

***Note that for Linux users, your local uid and gid will be requested. e2c will automatically fill them in by using id -u and id -g. This is because the files on you host and in docker should have the same access rights.

### Commandline project initialization mode

If at least one command argument is defined, automated setup will be started. All undefined parameters will be set with default values.

```bash
e2c init [parameters...] [flags...]
```

To get a list of all available parameters and flags for project configuration, run 

```bash
e2c init --help
e2c db --help
```

## PhpMyadmin

You can access phpmyadmin page by surfing to http://pma.[E2C_CFG_DOMAIN_NAME]

## Still performance issues

https://markshust.com/2018/01/30/performance-tuning-docker-mac/

<p align="center"><img src="assets/images/docker-settings.png" width="600" align="center" alt="Docker settings" /></p>

## Remarks

### Uninstall

Please note that when you uninstall, the containers will be removed. So when having issues with e2c it is better to reinstall than to do an uninstall. Reinstall can be triggered by running the curl command again above.

### Change of domain name

When changing the domainname of your project, you will need to recreate your containers ans ALSO remove env.php.

### When doing e2c down

The containers will be deleted and the persistant volumes will be removed. Note they are not deleted from your system! You can delete them via portainer.

### When importing a db

Use the absolute path to your file. There is also a bug on Mac that you cannot hib the back button.

### What folders are synced

ignore:
      paths:
        - .idea
        - .vscode
        - .m2c
        - /bin
        - /generated
        - /pub/media/catalog/product
        - /pub/static
        - /var
        - /vendor
        - node_modules

### Linux socket issue => debug help

Inside php container as root (so not e2c bash as this is as app)
/usr/local/bin/docker-php-entrypoint   php-fpm --nodeamonize
Check the errors

## XDEBUG
[XDEBUG info](XDEBUG.md)
## License

[MIT](LICENSE)
